[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: I would
speculate that there has not
been a period of time
that has mirrored where
we are in 2020, in terms
of pervasive global stress
and anxiety.
On one hand, the world
quieted for a time and people
went inside.
But when we emerged,
the world had changed.
Tiffany Barsotti is a medical
intuitive and teacher.
And she's back with
us to help sift
through the process of
working through mass unrest
at both the macro
and micro levels--
very different than
last time we met.
>>TIFFANY BARSOTTI:
Most definitely.
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS]
Different world--
we've created a
parallel timeline.
It's really interesting,
in terms of what
this has unleashed in people.
So first, my first
question to you,
just to get the
conversation started,
in working with your clients
as a medical intuitive, what
have you seen as kind
of the mass response
to going through COVID, and
now the beginning of dealing
with what's happening
with the economy globally?
>>BARSOTTI: Yes, these
are huge important points,
and times for us to be looking
more deeply into who we really
are, is, I think,
the emergent quality.
So to begin with that
as the end in mind,
and we'll get there
throughout our conversation.
But people-- first of all, a
lot of anxiety, a lot of upset.
Actually first, it
was mostly fear.
And under anxiety, you
can usually find fear.
But the uncertainty of how
serious this virus SARS-CoV-2
really is, and what
effects are these
going to have on our family
and all of the people
that we know and love, and
how we usually do life.
So the fear factor of those
things really emerged.
And then what I started
hearing a lot of is,
I can't do this work anymore.
>>REGINA: Yes, that's a big one.
>>BARSOTTI: I can't go back
to my old way of being.
And the healers, the other
healers that I work with,
are like, oh, phew,
a relaxed state,
I'm just going to
breathe into this.
I'm sort of built
for this, right?
I'm ready for all of this.
And then there are the people
that are really stressed by,
uh-oh, I don't have the tools.
I don't have the skills.
And now I'm locked
up with people
who I don't even
like, and also people
who are in really
awful situations
that they don't know
how to get along.
They're doing that
drama triangle dance,
which is rescue, victim--
>>REGINA: Yeah, we're
going to get into this.
>>BARSOTTI: --yeah, persecutor.
And so that dance can be really
dangerous for a lot of people.
People are locked
up with abusers.
So there's been a whole
faction of experiences.
And I would say, primarily, by
the time that people find me,
they have--
or the people who find me,
they're seeking something else.
They know your work.
They know some of mine.
They've been searching
for different terms,
even on the internet, maybe that
they've searched in the past.
They don't want to
do the psychotherapy.
They don't want to do
the same sort of wheel
that they've been doing.
So they're changing.
I've even had a
bunch of people that
even searched for drama triangle
and found some of my videos.
So I was like, wow, OK.
So there's something waking
up in the Zeitgeist that
is helping to wake us up.
>>REGINA: I agree with that.
And you know, this
is the human species.
If everything's going along--
like the people who
say, I don't want
to do this anymore, OK,
pre-COVID, in the old world,
the other timeline, the
parallel reality, in that world
before, you would
say, ah, yeah, OK,
I don't like my job so much,
but hey, I'm used to it.
It's not so bad.
It pays the bills.
And so you're going
on, and your life
looks kind of normal to you.
And it has some moments
of satisfaction, right?
And if someone came to you,
if a little angel tapped you
on the shoulder and said, you
know what, your life really
could take a big
step up if you were
willing to make some
significant changes right now,
most people would
say, nah, I'm good.
>>BARSOTTI: Yeah, exactly.
>>REGINA: That's
what we do as people.
>>BARSOTTI: Leave it.
>>REGINA: Until something
knocks us off our perch.
And so if we can
just accept the fact
that our level of
human development
is that we still tend to learn
through pressure, challenge,
and pain, then we can see
the beauty in all of this.
Meanwhile, it's not so
beautiful for those at home who
are now going through abuse.
And we need to talk about
that at a deep level.
Because sometimes, it's been
simmering, it's been there,
but it hasn't been expressed,
because the pressure wasn't on.
Let's talk about abuse,
how abuse is perpetuated.
>>BARSOTTI: Abuse is
really interesting,
because it's definitely part
of this whole karmic wheel.
We've both been the
abuser and the abused.
We've been the victim
and the victimizer.
So we really run
the gamut in all
of these various experiences.
And some people are
here figuring that out.
And they might even be in--
if you look at this karmically,
oh, I know this person.
I know this person
from other experiences,
whether it be a
distant relative that
had the same behavior,
or a past life,
or anything like that, where
these same dynamics are
at play.
And it's all calling
us to wake up.
But that discomfort that
we have to sit in, I think,
will expose the genius.
Jung said, the wound
becomes your genius.
That's not exactly
the exact right quote.
But if we allow it, the
wound is the challenge.
It's the thing that, yes,
we don't want anybody
to be in a really horrible,
abusive situation.
Of course not.
But if it is about that
person finding their own power
and getting their
essence back, then that
might be the thing that
they need to stand up and--
you don't necessarily
want to get
into a fight with your abuser--
but where is your
own power, and to be
able to start
utilizing your will,
and get smart about
the situations
and the relationships
that you're choosing,
and how it is that you're we're
the creators of our reality.
>>REGINA: Well, and we
couldn't have chosen a more,
let's say, potent time
to learn that one.
Because oftentimes,
what happens is,
you're trapped in a situation,
psychologically, maybe even
karmically and otherwise.
You're in a situation, and
you can't see a way out.
Say you're a woman
with two or three kids.
And say you're in an abusive
relationship with a man.
And the man is the
one who is primarily
supporting the family.
This has been classic
throughout history.
This is what has allowed
the abuse to continue.
Now what happens when
the money's gone?
There is no money for
anyone to actually pick
up and move into a new place.
There's no first, last, and
security deposit available.
And now you're kind of really--
this is knocked on from this,
and the financial ramifications
of this COVID thing.
What happens?
How does a person
extract themselves
when they feel absolutely
powerless in the material world
to make a change?
>>BARSOTTI: Yeah,
it's a tough question.
Ultimately, we are
creative beings.
And I believe the anxieties
that actually thwart our ability
to be able to tap
into that creativity,
if we can get calm,
that we can allow that--
and I know the calm is
sometimes hard to reach.
But it's like we wait for that
little bit of inspiration,
that thing that comes in.
Because I have clients that are
in these kinds of situations
as what you just named.
And what has
happened to a couple
of them is they
realized, oh, I can't
do this the way that I used to.
But I'm going to teach
my classes differently.
I'm not going to follow
the curriculum, since all
these systems are broken.
Half my kids can't even get
on-- if they're-- as a teacher,
they can't even get online in
order do the online education.
So they're getting
really creative--
>>REGINA: Yeah, this
is the beauty of it.
>>BARSOTTI: --and
that emergent quality
of us and our creative nature.
And I like to say
that, once ships
can come in over a calm sea.
And that to me is,
the vagus nerve
is your sea, of whether or not
you can be able to calm it.
And breath does a really
good job for doing that.
So if we can catch our breath--
there's a tool
that I like to use
and is a favorite of
amongst some of my clients.
It's the pattern
interrupt, where you just
stop in the middle
of all the craziness,
and know-- of course if you're
about to be hit by somebody
or be seriously abused,
keep your wits about you
and get smart, and find another
way to be in that situation--
or not be in that
situation rather.
Find a safe haven.
And there are people that
have been doing that.
But for the people that--
I would say 99.7% of
the time we are safe.
And what doesn't feel safe
is this sort of bullet train
that's happening in our head.
And if we can just collect
ourselves for a moment,
then we can allow the
creativity to come in.
So the pattern interrupt is
where you just stop, look
at your feet.
Because when you make
contact with your body,
the body is always
in the present.
So when you make contact with
the body, it's like, OK, land.
>>REGINA: Take a breath.
>>BARSOTTI: Take a breath.
>>REGINA: There's
really-- there's
a strong point to taking
that breath that's
not just metaphorical.
>>BARSOTTI: No,
that's exactly right.
>>REGINA: It calms the
nervous system immediately.
Take a breath.
>>BARSOTTI: Take a breath.
And then realize, I'm in control
of my next thing, my thought.
I'm the one choosing where it
is that I choose to go next.
I can choose to
inflame this person.
Oh, OK, that's
the typical dance.
That's the thing that we do.
And so that inflaming
creates more of the same.
So if we start to make
different choices,
we get some different outcomes.
So I know of many people who
have created new businesses.
OK, their business
is now shut down.
And then they have to reinvent
who they are in this process.
And they're doing it.
But it's like a flash.
It's in a dream.
It's an insight.
It's something that comes in.
And sometimes, it feels like,
oh, wow, that is way too big,
I can't go for that.
Or they get what I like to call
the how hole, that you-- well,
how is that going to happen and
how is that going to happen?
Just take a breath again,
because the how isn't always
our job.
It's just to stay the course
of, I have this creative vision,
I'm going to nurture
this, and I'm
going to see what comes of it.
And so to allow the calmness
that can come over--
and it may not be calm.
That might be too
much of a leap.
And that's OK.
>>REGINA: Even if it's a
moment of clarity, if not calm.
>>BARSOTTI: Yes, exactly.
So just get your feet in
the dirt for a second and--
or not even.
Just look at your
feet and just get back
into this present moment.
Because the stress mostly
is coming from living
too far in the past and future.
It's getting out of
the present moment.
>>REGINA: And this
is requiring that.
And it's interesting, because
you were bringing up a teacher,
and I was flashing by free
association to my husband.
He was teaching a course called
Emotions and Motivation, which
is an amazing course.
It wasn't.
It was a textbook, and they
laid out this dry curriculum.
And he thought,
they do not pay me
enough to do this
crappy course this way.
So he totally reinvented
it, took it online,
turned it into a video
course of his own volition.
He ended up getting
a 4.9 rating out of 5
throughout-- he taught
it for seven semesters
through Northern
Arizona University.
Actually, he even has
it free for people
on his site askdrzeus.com.
But he did this as a
service to the students
to have something
real to graduate with,
rather than these
horrid, dry curriculums
that had been handed to him.
And like he said, you're
not paying me enough.
This is what's happening
with all these teachers.
You're not paying me enough.
This is not satisfying enough.
I want to do it my
way now, like what
you mentioned with this person.
I think it's a beautiful
time to basically disconnect.
And granted, it looks rather
chaotic and anarchistic.
But in all of us, we
have a little anarchist,
I think, where the opportunity
for our inner anarchist
is there to come out and
say, I can do this better
than what they want of me.
And what are you going
to do about it, you know?
>>BARSOTTI: Exactly.
>>REGINA: So I think it's
a beautiful moment in time
for creativity.
I totally agree
with you on that.
Another thing is
that, people often--
when you're in
fear and shut down
like this, like in the
situation of abuse,
people can't see
possibility and opportunity.
Everything closes
into a little box.
And I've always said
to people, look around.
Where is their love?
Who loves you?
Your mom, your dad, your
brother, your cousin--
can you go there?
Go where love is, and just get
safe so you can think clearly.
And I would like your
thoughts on that,
the notion of how
to open ourselves up
so we can think clearly again.
>>BARSOTTI: Beautiful.
A couple of things
actually, because I'm
working with a couple
of people who actually
don't have a safe place,
that their family is not
a safe place.
And they're having to find
that inner reservoir of where
that love is for themselves.
And that is--
>>REGINA: That's the holy grail,
if you can find it in that.
>>BARSOTTI: And sometimes
these really tough--
like it's the coal being
forged into a diamond.
And it's that kind of
pressurization that's going on.
That's there for a reason.
And for some people,
that pressure
is really on, because that's
what it took in order for them
to find their tipping point.
And for some people,
if you can just--
I have a saying that, if
you follow the bread crumbs,
you end up being well-fed.
But if you're in resistance,
and you just want to argue,
and you want to
stay in judgment,
or you want to argue
for your limitations,
or you want to stay
in victim, these
are not times that are
going to serve you well.
And you will be flitted
around like a ping pong ball.
And to find that place--
because the only thing we can
really trust is ourselves.
>>REGINA: In the end, that's it,
>>BARSOTTI: That's it.
And so for people, whether
they don't have a safe place
or they do have a
safe place, what
is it that they know that they
can rely upon in themselves?
Where has there ever
been any evidence
in their life of some nugget
of truth that they follow?
Because we all have them.
It's just sometimes we have to
be a bit of an archaeologist
to go find them.
And I agree with you about
this little inner rebel
that is essential,
that we just rise up
and say, no, I'm not
doing it that way anymore.
And that's where the
creativity can emerge, as well,
because everything
else has been based
in status quo and control.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I agree.
Let's talk about this thing.
You and I had discussed this
a little in email beforehand.
And you were saying that
abusers are usually in denial
about their own power.
Now, what does that mean?
>>BARSOTTI: Well, a
couple of things--
so it's also, abusers
see somebody else's power
and want their power.
>>REGINA: Or they're
threatened by their power.
>>BARSOTTI: By their
power, exactly.
And so you wonder, how is
it that little kids can
be molested?
How is it that
there is such abuse?
And what I find--
which is really interesting,
because I actually
use a form of esoteric
numerology, which
is Carl Jung's interpretation
of the Tarot, Pythagoras'
numbering system.
And it's from astrology.
I'm not an astrologer, but
I mix all of these things,
and it's really robust.
So what I end up
finding, more than--
I would say, just maybe
under 100% of the time,
is that people have what
we call a master number.
And in this system, we
take it all the way to 99.
But really, if you're going
to follow the Tarot deck,
it's to about 77.
But suffice it to say, these
people have this in common.
And what I typically
find is, is that there
needs to be this type of effort
put into their lives for them
to remember what their
journey was about.
And if everything
happens for our good
in our life, that's
the work, is,
why did we write
this into motion,
why at the causal plane?
We wrote all of this.
And so to remember that
that's actually-- oh, OK,
so as soon as I
really get this, I
don't need the abuser to still
be the abuser in my life,
because I can wake
up to my own power.
And also, the abuser who's
doing that, as a victimization
to other people,
they can also realize
that they don't
need other people's
power in order for
their survival.
So there can-- but as
soon as we stop playing
that role, the
other people don't
need to play in that role.
>>REGINA: It takes-- either
one could stop the chain
and break it.
>>BARSOTTI: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Yeah, that's
a very good point.
OK, now let's go to another
subject, which is, you deal
with a lot of other healers.
And a lot of other healers
are also wobbly and trying
to find their own bearings.
And empaths are having a
particularly challenging time.
Let's talk about when
your field's wide open,
and you want to
be of assistance.
But you, yourself are having to
struggle for your own survival.
Because a lot of people
watching are empaths.
>>BARSOTTI: Yes, absolutely.
First of all, I have
a great compassion.
And we've talked about this
before with my own story.
And most us--
>>REGINA: And refresh
people just a little
bit, if they haven't
already met you.
Just give us the thumbnail
sketch of your background
so they understand what
you're talking about.
>>BARSOTTI: OK.
So I had the so-called
gifts of the clairs--
the clairvoyance,
clairaudience, clairsentience,
claircognizance,
and so this knowing,
that was overwhelming to me.
I did everything in my power
to shut those things down,
because it was way overwhelming,
to a five-year-old,
a six-year-old, seven-year-old.
I had my first
out-of-body experience
with some stress
that was going on,
because my father was being
taken to jail at age seven.
So that was sort of the impetus.
Where I want to link
this in is that, I
was sensitive in so many
ways for so many purposes.
And it was to wake
up my own intuition,
and also to learn discernment.
I had to end up
figuring out, OK, this
that I'm feeling, whose is it?
Is it mine, is it not mine, and
working on that discernment.
Most empaths are
being bombarded,
because that
discernment is still
needing to get worked out.
And we can make ourselves crazy
by thinking that everything
that we're going around,
the room that you're in,
the people that you might
be hanging out with,
whomever, have
this effect on us.
Well, that being so
permeable is handy at times.
But we want to be able to
dial that back and have
some controls within that.
Because it's actually part
of the journey, to wake up.
Jung actually had, as a way
within the archetypal structure
as part of the archetypes
of individuation,
that you become empathic.
Well, that's good, but not
to get stuck and stay there.
Because then you're getting
flitted about by everybody
else's mood.
So that grounding, first, and
to get clear, what's mine.
I actually have something
that I use as a tool.
I literally ask
all the empaths--
and I challenge
don't pick up other
stuff right now.
Get really clear.
>>REGINA: That's hard.
>>BARSOTTI: It is hard.
None of this is easy.
None of what we are in is easy.
>>REGINA: [LAUGHTER] True.
It's easy if you can
kind of isolate yourself.
But as long as you're around
a lot of other people, oy.
Yeah.
>>BARSOTTI: And
what's interesting is
that people, even
when we did isolate,
the empaths that are
having a really tough time
are feeling the collective
grief, collective anger,
the collective confusion.
And it's yet even
another call to action,
another layer to get
even more discerning.
So that's a key.
>>REGINA: And discernment
is the key right now.
And this whole thing about--
OK, so I was reading
some stats this morning.
And there's a site called
the medium.com, which
has a lot of good articles,
contemporary, different points
of view.
And the first one
up this morning
was one by a young man who
was basically saying, OK,
America has walked
away from COVID.
We are screwed for years.
It was very dark, very negative.
And so I started thinking
about it, and thought, hmm,
what has happened here?
And I realized, this
is a large country.
This is a country that's
not really a country.
California and the West Coast
has one way of thinking.
Northeast has a
completely different way
of thinking and culture.
The South, the Southwest,
and the Midwest--
completely different
realities, each one
contending with this
situation in their own way,
each one decided when and
how they're going to open.
There was no real science at
any level that was cohesive,
so you just picked
the one you wanted,
the study that you wanted.
And so here we are.
It's almost as though
we're living in--
everyone's living in
their own reality bubble.
But the discernment doesn't
seem to have been developed.
So let's talk about,
in a time when you're
untethered from any kind of
collectively agreed upon norms,
what happens when you then
are put under pressure
and you have to figure
it out for yourself?
>>BARSOTTI: You know what's
so beautiful about this?
I think this taps
into the Aquarian Age.
This taps into exactly
where-- we are right on time.
And only the creator
makes this much
of a mess out of everything.
[LAUGHTER]
So if we--
>>REGINA: And it
was in the stars.
We did astrological--
I did a couple shows
on it, one in Western astrology
with Robert Phoenix, one
with Simon Chokoisky
and Vedic astrology.
They both pointed-- said,
uh-oh, winter of 2020,
don't know what it is, but
what a ride we're going on.
So it's in the stars.
It was meant to be.
>>BARSOTTI: It is-- and
the Chinese New Year.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Oh, tell us about that.
>>BARSOTTI: Yeah,
the Chinese New Year,
which is beginning the top
of February, end of January,
top of February, right?
It's the white metal rat, which
is technology and viruses.
[LAUGHTER]
You can't make this stuff up.
I mean, it's there.
>>REGINA: So let's just
say it's in the cards.
This was supposed to happen.
So go on about the
Age of Aquarius thing.
>>BARSOTTI: Yeah, so I
really feel that this is--
and who knows exactly when
this really got going.
But it says that we're been
in it for a period of time
already, right?
It's the awakening of
our own human potential.
But we have to remember
what it is to be that human,
to remember our own will,
to remember our discernment.
And our own will
eventually is enabling us
to be able to choose surrender.
And as we are
navigating these waters,
I really-- there's another
challenge I would like to make,
is that, with all
the news that we
are hearing, all of
the various opinions,
east, north, west,
south, European, Asian,
wherever we are in the world, it
doesn't matter, South African,
South American,
African, there's going
to be all these
different opinions
on all of these things.
What is your truth?
What is it?
Like get really in
touch with, what is it?
All right, what message
am I getting from my body?
What message am I--
and is this reality that
everybody's talking about,
is this my reality?
>>REGINA: Right, because
your body will say, eh,
I'm not too worried.
I'm not feeling it.
Someone else will
really be feeling it.
And so this is
subtle information
that's being communicated.
We don't understand
the nature of feelings.
It's subtle information
being communicated to us,
through our feelings,
even through our bodies,
and def-- well, definitely
into the bodies.
Continue, yes.
>>BARSOTTI: Yeah, our
bodies have such wisdom.
But we have given away
so much power to--
whether it be other
people, other doctors.
And that's another facet
of the Aquarian Age
is that, this isn't so much
about reductionistic way
of thinking.
This is about, OK,
inclusive in my own reality,
what is my truth?
What is it that I see?
All right, I know I am
being impulsed, internally,
not to eat sugar--
good idea.
I'm being impulsed to
eat more natural fibers
and eat more naturally
and less processed food.
Follow it.
These are the things that
I think will give us--
I don't think.
I know it.
I know it at every
part of my being, that,
as we follow that
internal compass,
then we will find our way.
Then we're led to
those breadcrumbs.
Then we can find
those little morsels.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
But you have to
be able to discern
that voice from the other one.
You know, you got them
on both shoulders.
And you'll say, oh, I really,
really want that sugary thing
right now.
I really want it.
It'd make me feel good.
And the other one's trying to
say, your body's trying to say,
mm, not really.
And so right now,
when you have stress,
people have a hard
time listening
to the more subtle voices.
>>BARSOTTI: It's true.
And the more we
practice it, however--
and this is what I'm
going to say also
is the discipline of our time.
This, it's not an
overnight process.
And I'll speak for
myself, historically.
When I was getting
myself out of OCD,
very much I was in an
argument-- the ego guidance
and the intuition
guidance, this like--
as you were just gesturing,
on either side, like woo, OK.
And both spoke the
truth at times.
Both had a lot of convincing.
The thing is, the
smarter that we get,
the smarter our ego gets.
So it uses all these
pieces of information
that we've gathered
over time and uses it.
And it's like, oh, aren't you--
OK, this is really good.
All right, so I'm just going
to pause here for a second,
and I'm not going
to take action.
I'm not going to take action,
because it's not clear.
And until we get
that discipline,
that I'm not going to come
from a reactive place,
I'm not going to
come from this place
where I'm just literally
being flitted about, again,
either by somebody else's
mood or a condition
or something that might
feel good temporarily.
I know what the outcome is.
And the outcome is
always the same,
and so let me choose
something different.
Because this is the
insaneness of sameness,
that we just continue to
perpetuate the same ideas that
don't--
they don't pan out
to our creativity.
It's just keeping us
on the karmic wheel.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
And a lot of that just is
simply down to our beliefs,
that have become
concretized, so to speak.
So I'm going to go off
script a little bit here.
And I don't know if this is an
area that you choose to go in
or are comfortable with.
But this, to me, offers
the ultimate opportunity.
I'll give you an example.
I interviewed a woman
named Elena Tonetti
Vladimirova, many years ago,
probably close to 10 years
ago now.
And she lived in a
Siberian village.
And it was the first
place Russia had--
or the Soviet Union had
placed a nuclear power
to power the community.
It didn't go well,
had lots of leaks.
So she and her
entire community were
exposed to radiation poisoning,
low level, constant radiation
poisoning for a long time.
And she said it
was so interesting
how people's bodies responded.
She said in roughly--
this is rough terms--
roughly half the
population anomalies
started happening-- cancers,
birth defects, strange things.
But in the other part
of the population,
they developed these like
super immune systems--
and she was one of those--
to the point where she said,
when Fukushima happened,
she was so excited she
wanted to go there and be
in the radiation
because it feeds her.
And you look at Hiroshima,
a thriving city today.
What's the half-life, hundreds,
thousands of years of that kind
of radiation?
Built a city there, people are--
I think the stats are
pretty good, in terms
of even the cancer rates.
And it's a thriving city today,
only, what, 50, 60 years later.
So what's going on here?
This is a lot of this thing
you were talking about,
the sameness thing.
We need to break
those perceptions.
We're non-physical
beings at the core.
And I mean on an atomic level.
We are non-physical beings.
We are nothing but space,
with this perception
that we're seeing here.
So what can we do in this
change, this time that
offers creativity, the
opportunity for discernment,
and to take back the
power of our own mind?
What can we create by way of
mastery our own body and cells
and our body's reaction
to things like COVID
or whatever comes
up in the future.
>>BARSOTTI: I think
it's happening.
I think, so long as we
don't operate out of stress,
we can allow ourselves to just
move gently down the river.
And those people
didn't know what
was happening to them, right?
>>REGINA: No, not for a while.
>>BARSOTTI: Right, exactly.
It's like the frogs
in water, right?
You don't know-- and that
has a negative connotation,
I realize.
But the adaptivity
that we all have,
and it begins with the mind.
It begins with our relationship
to what's going on.
Because if we
perceive it constantly
from a place of
stress, versus, I
have followed my
guidance continuously,
I hear my guidance.
And if you don't
hear it completely,
know you're working
on your guidance.
>>REGINA: Your
feeling will tell you.
>>BARSOTTI: Yes, and you
will unlock the next thing.
This is where trust and
faith really comes in,
is to, OK, you know what, I know
what's behind door number 1.
I keep choosing it.
So let me go into a new facet,
a new way of-- let me just
take a chance.
And I have a saying.
I actually was preparing
for this course
that I've been in the
midst of teaching,
the personal
self-integration course.
And it's a 12-week course
that I'm just wrapping up.
But in preparation for that, I
was reading one of these papers
I had written several
years ago about,
in the eye of the needle,
we are the thread.
And Carl Jung spoke to
a very distinct date.
Now, I forgot to look
up when he exactly died.
It was in the early '50s,
I think, is when he died.
He said 11/11/11 is a
key time for humanity.
And that it's narrow, if you
look it as a simple symbolism.
And that these are
like narrow portals.
And when we go
through these things,
we don't take our
baggage with us.
And that's the work,
is for us to remember
we are mostly just prismatics
of light, that we are--
>>REGINA: Right, in the
very real scientific quantum
sense, that is all we are.
>>BARSOTTI: Yes.
And so when we lighten
our load and realize
that we are that light,
there's a different tenor
that comes over the whole body.
And we're guided differently.
And I don't have a
fear in the world
that we're going to be OK.
I just don't.
Is it totally crazy times?
Are people totally
against each other?
And we've got racism
to the 10th power,
again, we've got all this
happening with SARS-CoV-2,
and then whatever is going
to happen with the next time
that this comes around?
Because it's typical iof
viruses that these are--
they come back around.
And how do we develop ourselves?
Well, we develop ourselves with
our guidance first, I believe.
>>REGINA: I believe so, too.
And look at what's happening,
instinctively, as you mentioned
with the racial tensions.
We thought we were overcoming
that in the United States.
We weren't even close.
It has shown what has
been lurking there,
undealt with this whole time.
And it's never been
dealt with properly.
But now, really, I
think for the first time
in any serious sense,
people of all colors
are marching together.
And for the most part, they're
marching peacefully together.
There are always
opportunists and angry people
who will turn into
rioters and looters.
But that is not the spirit of
what's happening in the street.
And I've seen a couple
of them firsthand.
I've certainly watched
from around the world
as thousands, tens of
thousands of people
are gathering in the streets
for the first time to say,
enough is enough.
When do we all get to be humans?
When is it his right to
be a human like mine?
Because we've all
experienced it.
And it gets me very sa--
I mean, that's where
I get worked up.
I get very sad when it comes
to that kind of inequality.
So you have this.
You have now actions being
taken, again, in the United
States region by region.
In one region in Minnesota
saying, ugh, I'm stepping down.
This did not go well
on my watch and we
need to re-evaluate what
a police force is for.
When I was a kid, they were
called officers of the peace.
Now, many of them are behaving
in a militaristic way.
There's a reason for that.
They're being trained that way.
So now we look at that
and say, no, no more.
So I see the beauty in that.
And then just very recently, our
conservative Supreme Court just
did a landmark decision
that shocked everybody
in favor of expanded
and continued
rights for the LGBTQ community.
Who would have thought that?
We thought the
Supreme Court had been
stacked against that kind
of decision, 6 to 3 no less.
There are miracles
happening all around us now.
People are, I think on
such a deep level, getting,
we can't do this to people.
We can't do this to
each other anymore.
And that is the possibility
of these wrenching times.
>>BARSOTTI: Yes.
And I also think that that
plays into these times where
we were talking about,
the Aquarian times, what
we are waking up to.
And no, it's not just the divide
of colors and all of this.
It's humans.
Who are we?
And there's so much more
to uncover and discover
within ourselves.
And as we do that
work, we're going
to be able to do collective
consciousness so much better.
And that is where we're going.
And we're not being
Pollyanna here.
>>REGINA: No, this
is-- now we're
having to really pay our
dues, put our boots on, and do
this thing.
I'm going to be interviewing
Carl Calleman, whom
I have interviewed before.
And he's talking about the
ninth wave of consciousness,
and saying, hey, we've
been operating out
of a sixth wave--
patriarchy, structure,
technology, all of this.
But we have the opportunity
now to move our consciousness
into the ninth wave of
consciousness, which
is unity consciousness,
which is exactly what you're
talking about.
With all this
separation and division,
it's actually waking us
up to how we're unified
as a species, which I love.
>>BARSOTTI: It's very exciting.
It is very exciting.
The thing about the ninth wave--
because this
actually just came up
in the course I was
teaching, as well-- is like,
what is the difference
between individualization
and individuation?
And individualization, the way
that I would tease this out,
still has egotism
attached to it.
And we're still sort
of figuring out.
We're answering the call.
So if we think about this
from the heroic journey,
and we're answering the call.
And we have many iterations
of the hero's journey
in our lives.
And so as we're answering
the call, what's
our motivation to be able
to do what we're doing next?
Where are we being
motivated from?
Is it pure of heart?
And that's the thing to go back.
And also, when
we're questioning,
what intuition, what's ego?
What is-- is this
a separating idea
or is this a joining with idea?
>>REGINA: Exactly.
I couldn't agree more.
I just had a text exchange
with a friend last night.
We're, you can say,
kind of sociopolitically
on opposite sides of the fence.
And she was saying, well,
I bet this and this,
trying to kind of
see how I'd respond.
I said, you know, when
it comes down to it,
we can think what we want.
But I think our
real information is
going to come from the
heart, what's motivating us.
Where is our heart in all
this, which is exactly what you
were just saying.
Because in the end, the
notion of the virtue--
we can't trust truth anymore.
On my own website, it
says, truth matters.
Well, it does to me.
But then what is truth?
Now we're starting to
get down to, whose truth?
Where was it generated from?
But what does stand
the test of time
is kindness, inclusivity,
compassion, the virtues that
really emanate from the heart.
And you are so
right when you say,
if we're using that
as our lens to discern
for ourselves through,
we're probably going
to end up in pretty good shape.
And that's what's
happening as people join
hands in the streets together.
They're coming
from their hearts.
>>BARSOTTI: Yeah,
honestly, we're weaving--
as we get more
comfortable with the fact
that the wound ultimately
becomes our genius,
and that gets woven
into our tapestry.
And I mean like a unity, kind
of like what that actually
really means.
So as we do that,
we can find comfort.
I don't believe that
we can effectively
do group consciousness
until we have a better
understanding as to who we are.
And that's the mission of--
I think what we're in right
now, about this very essence
of what's truth,
and who's saying it
and what's their agenda.
And is that true for
me, really going back
to-- if there's
a takeaway here--
going back to, do
I have any evidence
of that being truth in my life?
Or am I just
accepting that this is
what's being told to me
because it's somebody else's
truth, based on an agenda
that I couldn't possibly know,
that's so scattered with
so many other agendas?
And who's pulling the
strings behind that one?
It's crazy-making.
>>REGINA: That's where
you go to the heart.
The heart knows.
>>BARSOTTI: Come back to center.
What's in love?
What do you know from your
essence that comes from love?
And let that be the motivator.
>>REGINA: That really cuts
through virtually every agenda,
honestly.
And it tells you where to put
your energy and your time,
really.
It gives you very
practical guidance.
One of the things that
you were suggesting
is that, we're entering into the
evolution of the age of grace.
So we just talked about
love a little bit.
So I think this is a good
segue way to go into.
What does that mean?
What is the age of grace?
>>BARSOTTI: So where this
came from, this was really--
this was weeks of
contemplation, as well.
As you know, I studied
with Caroline Myss and Norm
Shealy and many other--
I'll call them modern
mystics at Holos University.
And I had the fun fortune of
doing a lot within archetypes.
And Jung wrote about
this, Ed Ettinger.
Many people write about these
sort of survival archetypes.
And as I studied them
more, I was like, whew,
I really want to be
done with this model.
Where are we going?
And this is another
really important thing,
because we do need to have
this understanding of,
where are we going?
And so this was born out of
this questioning of myself.
And as we evolve out of
the archetypes of survival,
which are victim, persecutor--
sorry, victim, saboteur,
inner child, and prostitute.
So as we evolve out of them,
what are we evolving into?
And so what got downloaded
to me very quickly was, oh,
the archetypes of grace.
OK, well, as we evolve them,
what exactly does that mean?
And when we are feeling into,
I can't operate from that same
model anymore, so if I can't
prostitute myself and I
can't show up in that same
job anymore, and oh, my god,
every part of my body just
cannot do that job anymore--
how many people are saying that?
They can't sit in
the traffic anymore.
They don't want it to go
back to the way that it was.
And so all right, so if
I'm not prostituting myself
for a paycheck anymore, then
who am I if I'm being authentic?
And that's the archetype
that's moving into grace.
It's, the prostitute moves
into the authentic self.
And that, well, now we're
asking a much deeper question.
What's my truth?
Who am I authentically?
What is it that I actually
want to put out in the world?
Is there a problem
for me to solve?
Is there something
that I am feeling
like, I can't do my
teaching gig the way
that I was, I can't do my
advertising gig the way
that I used to?
Whatever that money-making
job was, if it's in alignment,
fabulous.
But if it's no
longer in alignment,
then there's a
deeper questioning,
and to get right
with your own river
and go in the direction
of that creative river.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And this is going to
have to also happen
at the institutional levels.
Because right now, we're
looking at a time of automation.
We're looking at companies,
for example, they've
been struggling for a
long time, and they're
using COVID as the opportunity
to either downscale or to quit.
And we're seeing this from
the tiniest of businesses,
little dog grooming
parlors, all the way up
to giant department
store chains.
So how do we start
employing this collectively?
When you're in a
situation where we're
going to go to
increased automation,
meaning millions and millions of
jobs are going to go away now--
they already have, and millions
more are going to go away--
where does that leave humanity?
Are we here to work?
Are we here to work for the man?
Is that what we as human
beings and souls are here for,
is to work for a living?
No, that's not our sole purpose.
So the whole notion of this mass
level of connected creativity
and unification of beings,
of thought, has to happen.
It's not like it's a choice now.
What do you do when millions of
people's jobs no longer exist?
>>BARSOTTI: Exactly.
And the government isn't going
to be able to employ everyone.
>>REGINA: And the government
can't keep doing bailouts,
because we're already
beyond hope on that one.
Can't ever pay it back.
>>BARSOTTI: So this is where
we get into that center.
And it's just like,
OK, since I can't
operate from that
old paradigm anymore,
what's waking up inside me?
What's the thing that I always
knew that I wanted to do,
but maybe had too
much fear around,
or the new idea, the thing that
has dawned on me now, that,
oh, now's the time for that?
It maybe wasn't the time
when I first had the idea.
But now is the time.
This is now ripe.
This takes courage.
>>REGINA: It takes
a lot of courage,
because it means circumstances
generally have to change around
it to support it.
>>BARSOTTI: Yes.
And the courage sort
of ignites that flame.
It will get it going.
And I love Brene
Brown's teachings
on courage and vulnerability,
that they really
go hand-in-hand.
>>REGINA: They do.
>>BARSOTTI: Yes,
you can't separate.
And it's just like,
sometimes when
I teach the drama triangle--
or getting out of the drama
triangle, which I call the
empowered surrender triangle,
which was another download.
But that was-- people
really took issue
with the word surrender.
>>REGINA: Why?
>>BARSOTTI: That it was like--
>>REGINA: Like giving up?
>>BARSOTTI: --acqueising
control and power.
And it's like, no,
it's the opposite.
But this is why
I believe that we
have to know our own
will before we can
let divine will will thy will.
So it's about a collective will.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And you're teaching
a new course,
and it's about merging
personality with soul.
This is where I
think that comes in.
Because these feelings we
have, these subtle feelings--
I don't want to do this, my
being can't do it anymore,
and I haven't had a chance
to express the thing I really
want to express--
that's a deep yearning in
so many people right now.
But the personality
continues on,
in its set form,
trying to continue on
in the way that's
the most secure
for hearth and
home and all that.
How do you begin
merging your true self,
those subtle impulses
from the soul--
and not so subtle impulses--
with the personality that's
expressing itself in the world?
Because I find it challenging.
If you went to a
meditation, it's like, woo,
you can be anywhere, blissed,
beyond that, undifferentiated
even.
But you come back in, and
someone cut you off in traffic.
[LAUGHTER]
>>BARSOTTI: It's true.
And Pema Chodron has a
great teaching on patience.
She says, if you're going to
try and teach yourself patience,
don't do it with the most
challenging relationship you
have.
Teach yourself
patience in traffic.
>>REGINA: In the little
things, in traffic--
I agree.
>>BARSOTTI: And we're
working our way towards that.
We have to, I believe,
embrace our personality.
But there's the shadow that
goes with this, as well.
And there are a lot of people--
we've spoken about
this in the past--
where they have done--
skipped over so much.
They had the bliss experience
in their meditations.
But they didn't incorporate
any of the shadow yet.
Well, at some point, that's
got to get incorporated.
And what I actually--
Richard Rudd speaks to
this, of the gene keys.
He speaks about that, what
Kundalini energy is actually
the rising up of shadows.
And I agree with that.
And this is why it
can hit so much.
Yes, it's pure energy.
Yes, it's pure potential.
Yes, it can be enlightening.
And it can also
really stir the pot.
And we want that pot stirred,
because whatever it needs,
whatever that crusty stuff
is of the bottom, that's
what we need to do so that we're
not continuing to do the drama
triangle and the karmic wheel.
And it's time to
get on with this.
>>BARSOTTI: So in your
course, what do people
experience to start
enfolding the shadow in?
What does that look like, so
that you can merge more purely
with the soul?
>>BARSOTTI: The aha first.
And you know, Maslow spoke
about the peak experience.
And to me, that's the aha.
It's like, oh, wow, OK, I cannot
go and inflame this same person
where that used to be the
dynamic that made me thrive.
And those fights
that I used to pick
with people that actually
gave me energy, now
actually tear me down.
I can't deal with it anymore.
I don't want to plug
in in that same way.
Or it's not necessarily
what's in my course,
about the angry piece.
However, we do need to
get in touch with anger.
Because the appropriate
use of anger
is to set appropriate
boundaries.
And that's also
necessary for the empath,
is to have good boundaries
and to be able--
so a lot of this, that emergence
and the emergent quality
out of the course, was
courage, which was curious.
I didn't know yet what was
going to emerge out of that.
And the courage
is to be yourself.
What is the personality?
Own the shadow aspects?
And those ahas that come--
there were so many.
I'm having a hard time
landing on one right now.
But they're this
essence of remembering,
oh, I'm here to be
this creative person.
I don't want to plug into
the man's model anymore.
And I just can't do it.
I can't do the
agendized method or way
or industrialized
reductionistic model of how it
is that we used to do things.
I can't.
That egg broke.
I can't do it.
>>REGINA: That egg broke.
And a lot of eggs broke,
because also people,
in being cast into the situation
where we were isolated,
sometimes with people we
don't get on that well with,
many things broke
within us to say,
I can't be that person that
you're demanding of me anymore.
This is a really big win
for women, is to say,
you know what, I've been
trying to be what you want.
And I can't do it anymore.
I'm not capable.
>>BARSOTTI: The no--
that was a piece
that I was so pleased that
it emerged, but I would not
have predicted it, in
this personality, soul
conversation that we're having.
When is the appropriate no?
And a lot of people are saying
no, whether their political,
to their sociopolitical
relationship,
to the people that they
usually said yes to,
to the people that their
contracts depended on.
It's just like, wow, I
just can't do that anymore.
The tolerance
level, the threshold
has just gotten
much more crunched.
>>REGINA: It really has.
>>BARSOTTI: And so that
ability to say no--
and then it's like, oh, my god,
that just came out of my mouth.
[GASPS] What does that mean?
>>REGINA: It is.
It's fascinating.
Because people, once
they were quiet--
and they couldn't really move
around much in the beginning.
Everyone was frightened, right?
Oh, stay indoors, keep
your masks on indoors
if you have to.
This quiet that
started settling in
that we talked about in the
very beginning, people maybe
kind of antsy, like what
do I do with my days,
they figured it out.
You figured out what
to do with your days.
But this sense of peace of being
more left alone with yourself,
and how much of your
energy is exhausted
by pleasing others, in every
way, in every single way.
And so reclaiming that
part seems to me--
I think just
recognizing that has
been one of the great gifts
of the COVID season of 2020,
right?
>>BARSOTTI: Agreed, agreed.
>>REGINA: Because
that's energy that
could be used toward
creativity, that
could be used for being able
to be of assistance, to open
up and see each
other more clearly,
just purely exhausted
trying to please each other.
>>BARSOTTI: Exactly.
And it's just not tolerable
as much as it used to be.
It's
>>REGINA: Not.
>>BARSOTTI: It's not.
And that gives
the rise to this--
I say about it,
the anxiety piece,
anxiety isn't just
a single emotion.
I actually-- I go totally
against what is in the DSM 5
and in the typical
literature when you look up
anxiety and depression.
And we have spoken some
about this in the past.
But I see it as a collection
of memories, of memories
that the body hangs on to like
little eddies, like a fast--
I really like the
analogy of like class
5 rapids, that we all have
that creative energy moving
within us.
And this beauty,
once we tap into,
and we realize that
it's better if we go
with the flow of the energy--
because always, when I'm
working on topic of anxiety,
the key question
to ask ourselves
is, what do we know that
we need to be creating?
Either you let it do a flyby
on, and you didn't actually
finish it.
And that is what needs
your time and attention.
And then also, the
anxieties are where you just
let all these other
emotions do the flyby.
And you didn't seize it.
You didn't get what it
was intended to teach you.
>>REGINA: You ignored them.
>>BARSOTTI: Exactly.
So it builds up.
>>REGINA: It does, yeah.
Out of all this, one of the
most stark instances of someone
who just thrived in COVID
was a friend of mine.
Now, she's the kind of
personality, very talented,
kind of wants to be part
of everything all the time.
Her agenda has to be full all
the time, never a slot open.
And now she's at
home by herself.
And she said, gosh,
I feel so good.
And she realized that she didn't
want to miss out on anything.
Like her life would be
less if she missed out
on everything and everyone
that was going on around her.
And when she realized,
I can't go anywhere,
there is nowhere to go, she
started settling into herself.
And she was more calm.
She was starting to get
back into her artwork.
And it was just
beautiful to watch.
She wasn't out there trying
to prove and please and feel
like she was wanted and part of
all of these different groups
and so forth.
And for her, COVID was really
a transformational experience.
>>BARSOTTI: I totally agree.
>>REGINA: It was
beautiful to see.
I don't have to be anywhere
with anyone at a certain time.
No one else is either.
I'm not missing out.
>>BARSOTTI: Yeah, and my add
to that is, which she also
may have tapped into is how
she was feeding on the energy
where everybody else
was in the midst of what
they were doing, as well.
And to get come back
in and hone, well,
what is it that wants
to be created within me,
not answering the
call always to what
is somebody else
needing from me.
And that's another thing
where empaths can fall in.
Because the empaths can
fall in and be rescuers.
And that is--
>>REGINA: And even take
it on as their own fault.
>>BARSOTTI: Absolutely.
And so that energy that's
being summoned by somebody else
is summoning that out of
me as a call and response.
OK, that could be
a slippery slope.
>>REGINA: Yes, it can.
>>BARSOTTI: And so
to look at, what's
the motivation for
entering into that dynamic,
if it's not coming from a
pure place, don't do it.
>>REGINA: Exactly, I agree.
OK, I just had to
toss that out there.
We're running out of time.
And I just wanted to get to
the one final question here,
which is a big one.
And that is-- we've had
an idea, a perception,
of what the good life is.
And it's been fairly
steady throughout history.
Now all of that has
been blasted apart.
So what is your
perception of how
we have to re-establish in our
minds what the good life is,
to accommodate this?
>>BARSOTTI: Thank you.
What comes to mind when we
talk about the good life,
or like ads that come up
in the '50s, that have--
oh, you've got
washing machines now.
You've got all these machines.
And it's interesting,
because we're
in another kind of machine time.
But what's being required
is a little bit different.
And finding more
time for ourselves,
while we have more
of the age devices
that have come to
maturity-- like,
wow, we should
actually find ourselves
with time on our hands.
But we actually are finding
ourselves more geared into,
well, what information is
out there, and plugging
into a matrix.
And the good life
is, to me, choice.
It's realizing the
dominion and the domain
and the sovereignty
of our own choices,
and that we were being
sold something in what we
had as the good life.
>>REGINA: Well, you
work a certain amount,
then you retire.
And then after you
retire, maybe you
go buy a condo somewhere
else, and whatever
that idea in the
material plane was.
And it was almost all associated
with the material plane.
Versus in some other
traditions in the East,
when you reach a
certain age, that's
your time of contemplation,
and the good life
is to untether from everything.
Not in the West,
we don't have that.
>>BARSOTTI: Not yet.
>>REGINA: Maybe this
is our opportunity.
>>BARSOTTI: I think so, in that
we got a little taste of it
with the isolation.
And to the extent that we
can use it, and not let
industry hijack our minds.
Don't-- we can resist that,
and it's by our choice.
So I believe that,
in the age of grace,
it's about choosing first.
>>REGINA: I agree.
Final thoughts?
>>BARSOTTI: Let's
be disciplined.
Let's be disciplined
about our own truth.
What is our truth?
Feel it.
Come from love.
Be aware of what's
motivating you.
And if it's not coming from--
motivating us, not even you.
I mean, the collective you.
The universal I is greatly
affected by the individual I,
and that we are
responsible, ultimately,
for these choices that we make.
And they do have an effect
on the greater whole.
So we're in it together.
And that responsibility for self
and also the collective is--
we're in a gracious time to be
able to, I think, offer that.
>>REGINA: Entering
the age of grace.
>>BARSOTTI: Yes,
we're getting there.
>>REGINA: Hear, hear.
Beautiful.
Thank you so much, Tiffany.
I think this kind
of a conversation
is really warranted
at this time,
while we each try to struggle
looking for what's next.
So thank you so much.
>>BARSOTTI: Agreed.
Thank you so much, Regina.
>>REGINA: If you enjoyed
this conversation,
you can go to the Gaia
archives and watch
my previous interviews
with Tiffany.
Meanwhile, if you're
an empath and ready
to let go of the
stuff of others,
you can go to healandthrive.com.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]